Document Hermes' gRPC endpoint requirements (#3529)
informalsystems/hermes: docs/spec/relayer/Data-Requirements.md

## Table of Contents

- [CometBFT RPC](#cometbft-rpc)
  * [`/health`](#health)
  * [`/consensus_params`](#consensus_params)
  * [`/status`](#status)
  * [`/header`](#header)
  * [`/latest_commit`, `/commit`, `/validators`](#latest_commit-commit-validators)
  * [`/abci_query`](#abci_query)
  * [`/tx_search`](#tx_search)
  * [`/block_search`](#block_search)
  * [`/block_results`](#block_results)
  * [`/broadcast_tx_sync`](#broadcast_tx_sync)
  * [`/broadcast_evidence`](#broadcast_evidence)

> - [CometBFT WebSocket](#cometbft-websocket)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [CometBFT WebSocket](#cometbft-websocket)
- [CometBFT gRPC](#cometbft-grpc)
```

    - `EXISTS acknowledge_packet`
    - `EXISTS timeout_packet`

## CometBFT gRPC

The following are the gRPC endpoints that Hermes makes use of, listed in rough priority from most used to least used. 

> ### `ibc.core.channel.v1.QueryClient`

Reviewer: On top of listing the client/service used to perform the query, can we also list the actual queries that are being made?

eg. for `ibc.core.channel.v1.QueryClient` that would be:
- `QueryChannelClientStateRequest`
- `QueryChannelsRequest`
- `QueryConnectionChannelsRequest`
- `QueryNextSequenceReceiveRequest`
- `QueryPacketAcknowledgementsRequest`
- `QueryPacketCommitmentsRequest`
- `QueryUnreceivedAcksRequest`
- `QueryUnreceivedPacketsRequest`

    - `EXISTS acknowledge_packet`
    - `EXISTS timeout_packet`

## CometBFT gRPC

The following are the gRPC endpoints that Hermes makes use of, listed in rough priority from most used to least used. 

### `ibc.core.channel.v1.QueryClient`

Queries for channel-associated data, such as packet commitments, unreceived packets, all channels associated with a given connection, etc.

The requests that Hermes makes to this endpoint are:

> - QueryChannelClientStateRequest: Requests the client state associated with a specified channel.
> - QueryChannelsRequest: Requests all of the channels associated with the chain.
> - QueryConnectionChannelsRequest: Requests all of the channels associated with a specified connection.
> - QueryNextSequenceReceiveRequest: Requests the sequence number of the next receive packet for a specified channel.
> - QueryPacketCommitmentsRequest: Requests the packet commitments associated with a specified channel.
> - QueryPacketAcknowledgementsRequest: Requests the packet acknowledgments associated with a specified channel.
> - QueryUnreceivedAcksRequest: Requests the unreceived acknowledgments associated with a specified channel.
> - QueryUnreceivedPacketsRequest: Requests the unreceived packet sequences associated with a specified channel.
> 
> > _*Note:*_ The `QueryPacketAcknowledgementsRequest`, `QueryUnreceivedAcksRequest`, and `QueryUnreceivedPacketsRequest` types each accept a Vector of `sequence`s in order to specify which packet commitments to fetch acknowledgements for. In the case where no `sequence`s are passed, the requests will simply return all acknowledgements for all outstanding packet commitments. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `QueryChannelClientState`: Requests the client state associated with a specified channel.
- `QueryChannels`: Requests all of the channels associated with the chain.
- `QueryConnectionChannels`: Requests all of the channels associated with a specified connection.
- `QueryNextSequenceReceive`: Requests the sequence number of the next receive packet for a specified channel.
- `QueryPacketCommitments`: Requests the packet commitments associated with a specified channel.
- `QueryPacketAcknowledgements`: Requests the packet acknowledgments associated with a specified channel.
- `QueryUnreceivedAcks`: Requests the unreceived acknowledgments associated with a specified channel.
- `QueryUnreceivedPackets`: Requests the unreceived packet sequences associated with a specified channel.

> _*Note:*_ The `QueryPacketAcknowledgements`, `QueryUnreceivedAcks`, and `QueryUnreceivedPackets` queries each accept a vector of `sequences` in order to specify which packet commitments to fetch acknowledgements for. In the case where an empty vector is passed, the queries will simply return all acknowledgements for all outstanding packet commitments. 
```

### `ibc.core.client.v1.QueryClient`

Queries the client in order to fetch client and consensus states.

The requests that Hermes makes to this endpoint are:

> - QueryClientStatesRequest: Requests all client states associated with the chain.
> - QueryConsensusStateHeightsRequest: Requests all the consensus state heights associated with a specified client.
> - QueryConsensusStatesRequest: Requests all the consensus states associated with a specified client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `QueryClientStates`: Requests all client states associated with the chain.
- `QueryConsensusStateHeights`: Requests all the consensus state heights associated with a specified client.
- `QueryConsensusStates`: Requests all the consensus states associated with a specified client.
```

### `ibc.core.connection.v1.QueryClient`

Queries the connection in order to fetch connection data and connected clients.

The requests that Hermes makes to this endpoint are:

> - QueryClientConnectionsRequest: Requests all connections associated with a specified client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `QueryClientConnections`: Requests all connections associated with a specified client.
```

> - QueryConnectionsRequest: Requests all connections associated with the chain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `QueryConnections`: Requests all connections associated with the chain.
```

> ### `interchain_security.ccv.consumer.v1.QueryClient`

Reviewer: Can we list the specific queries we make using this client?

Author: [dfe0c6c](https://github.com/informalsystems/hermes/pull/3529/commits/dfe0c6cbe566553a4f1c85c73087e541ce22c97c)

Queries a CCV Consumer chain to fetch its staking parameters, notably its unbonding period and the number of historical entries that the chain keeps.

> ### `cosmos.staking.v1beta1.QueryClient`

Reviewer: Can we list the specific queries we make using this client?

Queries a Cosmos chain to fetch its staking parameters, most notably the chain's unbonding period.

> ### `cosmos.base.node.v1beta1.ServiceClient`

Reviewer: Can we list the specific queries we make using this client?

Author: [dfe0c6c](https://github.com/informalsystems/hermes/pull/3529/commits/dfe0c6cbe566553a4f1c85c73087e541ce22c97c)
